---
layout: post
title: "Our Format"
date: 2012-09-22 12:52
comments: true
author: Josh Szmajda
categories: Meetups
---

Before we have our first meetup, I wanted to take a minute to let you
know what the format will be like, and also some plans I have for future
hangouts.

<small>**TL;DR**: [G+ Hangout broadcast to YouTube][1], small G+
Hangouts after for beers and chat, Google Groups to keep the conversation
going.</small>

### Enabling Technology: Google+ Hangouts On Air

Standard Google+ Hangouts allow up to 10 people to hang out, but
recently Google has added [broadcast capabilities via YouTube][1] so any
number of people can watch the hangout live. We plan for the "main"
hangout to have our hosts, presenters, and a few moderators or special
guests. The rest of the community will be engaged through YouTube. Our
moderators will be selecting comments from YouTube live and copying them
into the hangout's text chat, where hosts or guests can bring them up to
our presenters. Our goal is to make everyone feel like part of the
conversation.

### Our First Meetup

Keeping that in mind, our format will be (for the first meetup at
least), an introduction, announcements, two presentations each followed
by questions, and then break-outs into smaller hangouts to bring the
community together.

### Building a Real Community

One of the things I love most about my local meetups is the time after
the presentations when I can hang out, drink a beer, and get to know the
other people in my community. We want to have that same feeling at The
Ruby Hangout, so we're going to have break-out "drink-up" sessions after
the presentations. These G+ Hangouts will be each created by one of the
hosts, presenters, moderators, or special guests who were in the
original broadcast. These will be informal sessions for people to get to
know each other and chat about Ruby or other things of interest to
community members. The organizers will try and keep a list of active
hangouts so people can move around, getting to know as many people as
they like.

We also have started a Google Group, [The Ruby Hangout][3]. Forums and
email lists are familiar tools to build community.

### Continuing the Conversation

The recording of the hangout will be available on YouTube for anyone to
watch. One of the problems we're foreseeing is that we'll be recording
at 7pm Eastern time, which isn't necessarily convenient for people
around the world. We're considering ways to continue the conversation
with both our presenters and the community at large, making everyone
feel welcome. Some ideas are collecting comments and forwarding them to
our presenters up to 24 hours after the meetup or simply asking our
presenters to respond to comments on the meetup in our Google+ stream or
Google Group. We could use more ideas around this, what are your
thoughts?

### The Future

We're looking for presenters and great presentations. The core of our
community is sharing knowledge, so if you have anything you'd like to
share, please [let us know][2]. 

One idea we've had is to have short "ruby newbie" intro presentations.
Each would be 5 - 10 minutes and would help introduce ruby and related
technologies to newcomers. Think it's a good or bad idea? Let us know in
the comments!

[1]: http://www.google.com/+/learnmore/hangouts/onair.html
[2]: mailto:info@therubyhangout.com
[3]: https://groups.google.com/d/forum/ruby-hangout
