---
layout: post
title: "State Of The Ruby Hangout"
date: 2014-07-13 11:43
comments: true
categories: Meetups
---

# Looking Back

The Ruby Hangout has been a lot of fun for me. I've enjoyed talking to
lots of great notable people and learning about all kinds of awesome
projects.

It's becoming a problem for me to stay on top of a monthly meeting
though.

I think the future holds lots of great things for the Ruby Hangout but
perhaps not as a monthly event.

Scheduling is a bitch

I'd love to talk to lots more people about Ruby and where we're going
with it. There's lots of other interesting things going on out there in
the world of development too though.

I started the DC Polyglot Programming Meetup and I've been really
excited to learn about new things across the industry. I think
cross-pollination is the only way to get the best ideas all the time,
otherwise you get a serious echo-chamber.

The Ruby Rogues had an interesting talk with Dave Thomas recently. He
said you should always be challenging the status quo. He specifically
recommended trying programming without TDD. TDD is such a sacred cow in
the Ruby community. I love TDD, but when I write other languages I don't
use it as much and I get the same sort of guarantees. That leads me to
wonder what's really important---is the value in the tests themselves or
is it in what we get out of it. I think we get confidence, so however we
do that is what we should focus on. This is just one example but it's an
interesting thought experiment.

The Ruby Hangout will continue, just more sporadically. Subscribe to our
Google Plus page and you'll always get alerts when we have one, or
follow us on twitter.

Definitely check out our past hangouts in the sidebar, they're all lots
of fun!
